b5 passat trunk latch mechanism how to
remove it from the trunk first you pull
the carpeted panel from the inside of
the trunk lid got to disconnect this
linkage on this end you got to take
those two nuts off there'll be a number
of electro connect electrical connectors
you'll need to disconnect and the next
thing you need to do to get this off the
inside of the trunk is release it from
this plate this plate is still to be
bolted to the inside of the trunk lid in
order to release this mechanism from
that plate you see that a horizontal bar
in there you've got to get a knife or
screwdriver or something in there
and lift up that bar
it's a little clip see it moving it
moves pretty easily and it wants to snap
back down when I'm not putting tension
on it
if you can get
get that guy up high enough
see in there I got that thing lift it up
then we can pull and wiggle this
mechanism and it should work itself
that plate
they may not have it high enough
there we go just working off the plate
we're doing it pulling it there we go it
released now this plate is still going
to be attached to the inside of the
trunk lid it's bolted with two more
bolts but this is the part that we're
after we got it off the vehicle the clip
is still in there I didn't remove it I
just lifted it to release this part from
the other part now that we've got this
off the vehicle
there's your lock cylinder grab the lock
cylinder and turn it 90 degrees
clockwise and that releases it not gonna
wiggle it pull it and how that comes and
then for reassembly get it in there in
the right orientation all the tabs lined
up press it and then we look till it
bottoms out turn it 90 degrees
counterclockwise and it's back locked in
where it belongs and then to put this
back into the trunk lid
this will still be attached to the
inside of your chocolate that clip
we'll retain this once you get this in
it'll click into place and that clip
will hold it in there so now I get it
all lined up
shaft wiggle it and press it and clips
into place it's locked into place it's
not going anywhere put your two nuts
back on put your electrical connectors
back on reattach your linkage of this
house